Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.Programming language is a set of instructions given to computer to run certain tasks or programs. A language that computers can understand.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.Java development kit is a bundle of software which is used to develop java based applications. It contains JRE along with various development tools.

What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment is a software that allows programmers to develop software. It usually contains source code editor, build automation tools and debugger.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.intellij, Eclipse, Kite, Bluej, Xcode etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.There are main stages in java life cycle.
Editing the program
Compiling
Executing the byte code

what is class?
A.A class is a blueprint.

What is object?
A.An object is an instance of class which is used to get the job done like changing the variables, calling the methods and combining them with other objects.
What is the entry point of an application?
A.Main Method.

Why main is static?
A.Static is a keyword that means that a method can be called without the creation of object and main method has to be static because it is the entry point of the application.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default.


What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path variable contains a path to the java tools while classpath contains a path of the classes provided by JDK.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods. Interface can have only abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.No we cannot. For abstract class, we can implement a subclass of abstract class which must not be abstract. For interface, you must create a class which implement the interface and implement bodies of interface methods.

what is Access Specifier?
A.It is an element that limits/controls the access of particular class, variable or other piece of data.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.OOP is object oriented programming. Features of OOP include:
1- Encapsulation: Process of binding fields and methods in a single class.
2- Inheritance: One class inherits/have access to the properties of another class.
3-Polymorphism: A concept in which object takes multiple forms. It can be achieved using overloading and overriding.
i-Overriding: In this case, which method to call will be decided at the run time based on what object is actually pointed to by the reference variable.
ii-overloading: In this case, which method to call will be decided at the compile time itself based on the number or type of the parameters.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.Package contains a number of components that are used very commonly in Java programs. Default java package is java.lang.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.An API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of functions that allows applications to access data and interact with external software components, operating systems, or microservices.
i- google maps
ii- twitter
iii-Gmail

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.No java doesn't support multiple inheritance because it causes ambiguity.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Method Overloading is applied in a program when objects are required to perform similar tasks but different input parameters. Every time an object calls a method, Java matches up to the method name first and then the number and type of parameters to decide what definitions to execute.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.It is a process to handle runtime errors to maintain normal flow of application. Java handles exceptions using different keywords like try, catch and finally.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.The static keyword is used in java mainly for memory management. We may apply static keyword with variables, methods, blocks and nested class. The static keyword belongs to the class than instance of the class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.The final keyword in Java is used to restrict the variable, class, or methods in Java. If we declare a variable as final, then we can’t change its value again. If we use the final keyword with a class, then no other class can inherit the final class. When you declare a method as final then the method can not be overridden in the child class.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.The basic difference between final, finally, and finalize is that final is an access modifier, finally is a block and finalize is a method of an object class.

What is a constructor ?
A.A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called when an object of a class is created. It can be used to set initial values for object attributes: Note that the constructor name must match the class name, and it cannot have a return type (like void ).

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. A class always has a default constructor which is called.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.Keyword 'THIS' in Java is a reference variable that refers to the current object. It can be used to refer current class instance variable. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be passed as an argument in the method call.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
i-super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
ii-super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
iii-super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.JVM is a platform itself.

What version of java are you using?
A."1.8.0_301"

What is JAR stand for ?
A.JAR stands for Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JDK is Java Development Kit and JVM is Java Virtual Machine. JDK contains JVM and whole other tools for java development inside it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JVM is java virtual machine and java runtime environment.

What is compile time and run time?
A.The key difference between compile time and run time is that compile time is the programming life cycle phase that converts the source code into an executable file while runtime refers to the programming life cycle phase that runs the executables generated at compile time.

What is heap?
A. A heap is a specialized tree-based data structure which is essentially an almost complete tree that satisfies the heap property

How java manage it's memory?
A.Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector. Thus, we are not required to implement memory management logic in our application.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.Strings are immutable while StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable. So, Strings cannot be changed when you use the String class; whereas Strings can change if you use the StringBuffer and StringBuilder class.

What is Singleton class?
A.A singleton is a class that allows only a single instance of itself to be created and gives access to that created instance. It contains static variables that can accommodate unique and private instances of itself.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization, if we don’t want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.The main difference between a while loop and do while loop is that while loop check condition before iteration of the loop. On the other hand, the do-while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
A.The EnumSet is a specialized Set implementation to be used with enum types. They are represented internally as bit vectors. The elements in an enum set must have a single enum type and Null elements are not allowed in the set. The EnumSet cannot be instantiated using a constructor; instead, there are many factory methods to do the same.

What is Iterator?
A.An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.int a short of integer so either of them will take same memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.The string pool has string objects that are cached due to which string is immutable. Multiple clients share the cached string literals. The risks involved in the action of one client would affect all the other clients.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object. It is used when we want to invoke a number of constructors, one after another by using only an instance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial garbage collector mainly designed for single-threaded environments (e.g. 32 bit or Windows) and for small heaps. This collector freezes all application threads whenever it’s working, which disqualifies it for all intents and purposes from being used in a server environment. While
parallel garbage collector is the JVM’s default collector.

What is JIT stands for?
A.Just in time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Java Heap space is used by java runtime to allocate memory to Objects and JRE classes. Whenever we create an object, it’s always created in the Heap space.Garbage Collection runs on the heap memory to free the memory used by objects that don’t have any reference. Any object created in the heap space has global access and can be referenced from anywhere of the application.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.No.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.Stack is much faster than a heap . Since in stack memory allocation is easy and moving the stack pointer up. For programming purpose , it’s better to use stack rather than heap bcz it’s easier to allocate memory on stack. If size of data is small use stack if not use heap .

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Java reflection is useful because it supports dynamic retrieval of information about classes and data structures by name, and allows for their manipulation within an executing Java program.

what is multithreading in java?
A.Multithreading in Java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.synchronized is a Java keyword. It means that the method cannot be executed by two threads at the same time and the JVM take care of enforcing that.

What is Framework?
A.a framework is a platform to write code and develop applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.Selenium, JUNIT, Jasmine Jbehave, testNG etc

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.The difference between JUnit and TestNG is that JUnit is a platform for section-wise checking of code written in java, and it is an open-source platform. Whereas TestNG is not an open-source platform, and TestNG has more tools for testing purposes than JUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.A project dependency is a logical, constraint-based or preferential relationship between two activities or tasks such that the completion or the initiation of one is reliant on the completion or initiation of the other. If you are painting a canvas, the application of the oil paint is one activity.

what is dependency injection in java?
A.The intent of Dependency Injection is to make code maintainable . Dependency Injection helps to reduce the tight coupling among software components. Dependency Injection reduces the hard-coded dependencies among your classes by injecting those dependencies at run time instead of design time technically.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.The key difference between static binding and dynamic binding is that, in static binding, the binding is resolved at the compile time while dynamic binding is resolved at the run time, which is the actual time of execution.








